Tyler's presentation on page 138-151.

terms:

apparatus

efficiency 

homogenity

simplicity

necessity


war economy and technological efficiency is gestell (enframing). Marcuse 
takes the phenomenological and existential understanding of heidegger and 
combines it with a marxist understanding of labor. 

For marcuse there is little difference between National socialism and 
american capitalism. 

potential fall of overly fascistic regimes: they are so efficient that 
they break themselves down. 
	- the productive forces themselves cannot keep up with the 
efficiencies. 
	- can be related to the point that for Veblen "[the human's] work 
supplements the machine process rather than makes use of it. On the 
contrary the machine process make use of the workman." humans are 
dragging the progress of technology down. Sandra says if you start 
looking at algorithmic trading, humans are dragging it down. "The share 
of the operative workman in the machine industry is (typically) that of 
an attendant, an assistant, whose duty it is to keep pace with the 
machine process and to help out with workmanlike manipulation at points 
where the machine prorcess is incomplete. 

Taylorism is when you break everything down into components and do 
scientific management. Fordism 

veblen on bureaucracy!! socio-political thought. 
	- critical sociology and work. 
	- Jonathan nitzen uses veblen.



the thing about marcuse always holds on to a dialetical hope for critical 
thought. 


left-wing accelerationist perspective 


Cognitive Capitalism -- ask who did she 


Discipline vs self-regulation. How fascism isn't exactly like the 
democratice society that we see today. Foucault died before he could look 
at the effects of digital life on humans. 

Technology as a push for efficiency also has an effect on the classroom, 
because if students are chiefly concerned about their grades as their 
primary takeaway from the class, then they will only focus on what it 
takes to get a grade in the most efficient course of action. This works 
in opposition to being open to other aspects of the class that may or may 
not co-relate to grades, but are nonetheless of potential value. 

how through technology our thinking is supplanted by instrumentalization 
i.e. a gps does the thinking and navigation for you (see page 141). 
Stiegler talks about this in Automated Society.
	- Einar posed that there is no difference between the 
consultation of the map (or gps) with the stranger local to the area one 
is navigating. 

partly what we want to do with philosophy is update it as we go along. 
i.e. Tamer mentioned that a lot of this text is ableist, racist, sexist. 
Sandra says that within technology is embedded gendered and ablist 
terminology. Sandra says that by the time we get to Stiegler it may not 
as much be the case, that accelerationism may move away from this. 
	- Sandra mentioned Edward Said "Travelling Theory" that work 
itself takes on a trajectory of its own, and the people who you don't expect to read it 
read it anyway, and take it in their own directions. ... THIS WAY you 
take what you need of Heidegger and use it for something he didn't 
address. 

Peter mentioned that after the map is printed it is already out of date. 

Idea of "Matter of factness" presentation of technology that makes it 
seem obvious. its a totalizing way of thinking. 
