Read: Marcuse: 'Some Social implications of modern technology'

then:
so for this assignment i need to write a response on -- and 
provide 2 questions for -- pages 152-162 of marcuse. 

0. keywords
1. notes on whole article
2. notes on my section

--0. keywords
	- technics

	- tecnocracy: "the technical considerations of 
imperialistic efficiency and rationality supersede the 
traditional standards of profitability and general 
welfare." BUT Need to to define it more, perhaps from 
outside this article

	- individualistic rationalism


	- radical puritanism



--1. notes on whole article:

'fetish of technique' replaced commodity fetish after 1941

-political neutrality of technique
-possibility of progressive utilization of techniques

'technology is taken as a social process in which technics 
proper (that is, the technical apparatus of industry, 
transportation, communication) is but a partial factor.' 
(138)

this article does not focus on the effect or influence of 
technology on human individuals (138). 

"technology, as a mode of production, as the totality of 
instruments, devices and contrivances which characterize 
the machine age is thus at the same time a mode of 
orgnizing and perpetuation (or changing) social 
relationships, a manifestation of prevalent thought and 
behaviour patterns, an instrument for control and 
domination." (138-139)

When marcuse talks about the "ingenious manipulation of the 
power inherent in technology: the intensification of labor, 
propaganda, the training of youths and workers, the 
organization of the governmental, industrial and party 
bureaucracy -- all of which constitute the daily implements 
of terror -- follow the lines of greatest technological 
efficiency" (139) this is likely what Sandra Bell was 
saying in regard to how hiedegger was influenced by marcuse 
in the total of technology, that society is a form of 
technology.

"The principle of individualism, the pursuit of 
self-interest, was conditioned upon the proposition that 
self-interest was rational, that is to say, that it 
resulted from and was constantly guided and controlled by 
autonomous thinking." (140)
	- RECALL that distributed cognition and distributed 
crativity works in opposition to INDIVIDUALISM. that no one 
is ever truly working in isolation of their society, or in 
isolation from other ideas. 
continued: "The rational self-interest did not coincide 
with the individual's immediate self-interest, for the 
latter depended upon the standards and requirements of the 
prevailing social order, placed there not by his autonomous 
thought and conscience but by external authorities" (ibid)

"Liberalist society was held to be the adequate setting for 
individualistic rationality. In the sphere of free 
competition, the tangible achievements of the individual 
which made his products and performances a part of 
society's need, were the marks of his individuality. In the 
course of time, however, the process of commodity 
production undermined the economic basis on which 
inidivualistic rationality was built. Mechanization and 
rationalization forced the weaker competitor under the 
dominion of the giant enterprises of machine industry 
which, in establishing society's dominion over nature, 
abolished the free economic subject." (140-141)


Key: "The priniciple of competitive efficiency favors the 
enterprises with the most highly mechanized and 
rationalized industria equipment." (141) 
