essence

distinction between the object and the thing.
	- criticizing the assumption that our relation to entities 
is primarily through knowledge (Josh). - the object is an object 
of representation < relate to in a cognitive way - the thing is 
that which we relate to in a practical way. - forefold some soert 
of structure of the practical and representational relation the 
thing
	- Sandra points to page 19 (the thing) "The first step ... 
is the step back from merely representational, i.e., explanatory 
thinking into commemorative thinking. The step back from one 
thinking into the other is admittedly no mere change of attitude." 
(19)

Jay: Very useful tool for understanding a new text with new words 
is to look at their etymological origin.

When he is talking about nearness, he's talking about all 
distances in time and space as shrinking.

"When we think the thing as thing, then we protect the essence of 
the thing in the region from where it essences. Thinking is the 
nearing of the world. Nearing is the essence of nearness." (19)
	- a gathering of the forefold, which releases a set of 
relationships in the world.(Einnar).
	- representational thinking.
	- Heidegger is doing a kind of martial arts of thinking: 
don't let your eyes get in the way of seeing, don't let your ears 
get in the way of hearing. Heidegger's way of thinking is 
apprehension.

The thing in the computer age gives us the answers. we are 
interacting with a void.


notes

positionality links everything as standing reserve

positionality with the gas chamber, it is an ordering

basic term is 'positionality' [das Ge-Stell]. links it with 
labour, the automobile, the gas chambers.



If we pick up the question:

Heidegger is actually

land has been ordered in a way that it is a stockpile. how we 
order things for the best of their utility. we can think of it as 
a way to get the most of out of

thinking of technology as a product of human intelligence. (Bree)

the ordering of the world. located positionality as a development 
of the world. Follow from what Jon said, go to the sub question 
you had:



Sandra says that the 'challenging-forth' is the precursor to 
Heidegger's later idea of the 'enframing'.


the example that we are doing is precisely the positionality that 
heidegger is writing

circuit of positionality as understanding what we put into 
something before we make it, as an ordering, we think this way. 
the positionality strikes against inceptional thinking, reflective 
thinking, thinking that it will get us out of the very thinking we 
have. (like the idea that the


Ge-Stell: is the negative image of pureness, the essence.

the pureness of something as it is, is its essence. being is. time 
is. that is curtailed by the structure of ge-stell. heidegger is 
trying to unpack that.

Heidegger asked "where is time".


Einnar: "whether its appropriate to think of positionality as a 
kind of blackboxing, in that ... positionality is a concealing of 
the truth or the thingness of the thing. A black box is the 
concealing of all the processes that went into making the thing." 
(Einnar) "A leaving of scale at the macro level to the effect that 
we're unable to make out what the lower level processes. Black box 
only comes into being by its effect on the human, its a demand 
that we don't consider how a thing came into being" (Einnar)

from Josh's presentation on 'The Danger'.
	- Take notes on what unconcealment means, and what 
forgetting means.

forgetting as opposed to deleting.

"Technology is not simply the object, but its also a way of 
knowing, it is knowledge. In that way, this danger that heidegger 
is talking about is 'being stuck thinking in a particular way'" 
(Tamar) Sandra: "What Michael was thinking about in terms of the 
circuits of positionality is similar; and Heidegger is asking us 
to think in a different way."

The way in which we think technology is a danger in itself.

He hates the homogenization that technology produces.

Heidegger does not hate the typewriter, but he hates the danger of 
the uniformity of what the typewriter produces in terms of 
typeset, font, language, (also the keyboard layout changes how we 
think), etc.

the real danger is we don't see a different way of thinking or a 
different way of being:
	if technology is a way of thinking, we are 
incapable of not thinking outside of our own way of thinking,
	-That heidegger refers to humans as pieces, as cogs in a 
system, 


eventually reading further into heidegger is the idea of the 
'fragment'. Jay Goulding posits that the fragment is perhaps of 
more interest than the whole, that the fragment can be moved 
through and around in thought. 
https://www.beyng.com/grk/anax1.html
http://www.popmatters.com/column/forays-into-the-fragment-heidegger-and-kant/


Beyng is that which disrupts the simulation. The danger is that it 
becomes the simulation. We are experiencing the danger... we are 
still the shepherds still waiting for The Turn. Jay: people 
mistakenly see the turn as Heidegger's shift towards poetry, but 
it isntead in fact  turn is an oscillation, there's an internal 
movement. 

'Being', 'being', 'beyng'. and we as humans are beings. We 
basically as humans operating technology operate in simulation, 
what appears on the screen is a representation. [ow] but do we 
'challenge forth' the representation and reorder it for other 
applications? 
if we are in simulation we are thinking that is a framing and 
ordering and challenging forth. heidegger ends up calling this a 
form of poeisis:
	- "Language is thus never merely the expression of 
thinking, feeling, and willing. Language is the inceptual 
dimension within which the human essence is first capable of 
corresponding to being and its claim and of belonging to being 
through this correspondence. This inceptual correspondence, 
properly enacted, is thinking. By thinking we first learn to dwell 
in the realm in which the conversion of the dispension of being, 
the conversion of positionality, takes place." (67)

Simulation you would not be struck to your essence. You would be 
living entertained, ordered.

he keeps coming back to the essences of technology, asking what 
the essence of technology is. 

Techne (page 34 of question concerning technology).
