Seems this is about reality and truth

"The world of 
immediate experience -- the world i which we find ourselves 
living -- must be comprehended, transofrmed, even subverted in order to 
become that which it really is. In the equation Reaon = Truth = 
Reality, which joins the subjected and objective world into one 
antagonistic unity, Reason is the subversive power, the 'power of the 
negative' that established, as theoretical and practical Reason, the 
truth for men and things -- that is, the conditions in which men and 
things become what they really are." (127-128)

continued: 

"The totalitation universe of technological rationality is the latest 
transmutation of the idea of Reason." (ibid) 

KEY >> Chapter 5 (this one) and 6, are Marcuse's attempts to 
"identify 
some 
of the main stages in the development of ... the process by which 
logic became the logic of domination." (ibid)

"The closed operational universe of advanced industrial civilization 
with its terrifying harmony of freedom and oppression, productivity 
and destruction, growth and regression is predesigned in this idea of 
Reason as a specific historical project." 

"The technological and the pre-technological stages share certain 
basic concepts of man and nature which express the continuity of the 
Western tradition. Within this continuum, different modes of thought 
clash with each other; they belong to different ways of apprehending, 
organizing, changing society and nature. The stabilizing tendencies 
conflict with the subversive elements of Reason the power of positive 
with that of negative thinking, until the achievements of advanced 
industrial civilization lead to the triumph of the one-dimensional 
reality over all contradiction." (ibid). 

Technological rationality is made up of contrasting forces i.e. 

"In classical ZGreek philosophy, Reason is the cognitive faculty to 
distinguish what is true and what is false insofar as truth (and 
falsehood) is primary a condition of Being, of Reality--and only on 
this ground a property of propositions." (129)

continued

KEY >>" True discourse, logic, reveals and expresses that which 
really is -- as distinguished from that which appears to be (real). 
... Being is better than Non-Being. The latter is not simply Nothing; 
it is a potentiality of and a threat to Being--destruction. The 
struggle for truth is a struggle against destruction, for the 
'salvation' of Being..." 
	KEY>>> continued "Inasmuch as the struggle for truth 'saves' 
reality from destruction, truth commits and engages human existence. 
It is the essentially human project. If man has learned to see and 
know what really is, he will act in accordance with truth." (ibid)

"This conception reflects the experience of a world antagonistic in 
itself--a world afflicted with want and negativity, constantly 
threatened with destruction, but also a world which is a cosmos, 
structured in accordance with final causes. To the extent to which 
the experience of an antagnoistic world guides the development of the 
philosophical categories, philosphy moves in a universe which is 
broken in itself -- two-dimensional. Appearance and reality, untruth 
and truth, (and, as we shall see, unfreedom and freedom) are 
ontological conditions." (129)


