bringing up Said again, example of Heart of Darkness having a lot of 
colonial and racism, and its difficult to do anything with this in 
the text, BUT to look at what came after in response to the work. 


Marcuse, especially in chapter 6, he's against the positivists are 
just another empiricists. it doesn't get 
past what 'is'. 
	- positivists were the teachers in scholars up until the 
1970s. 
	- hegel and marcuse weren't taught until after the 70s 
because positivism reigned. 

battle between Possitivists coming out British tradition and the 
continental philosphy


slave-master tradition

Page 141 on logic: "FOrmal logic..."
	- try to keep in mind where he posits critical thinking

KEY: Marcuse is trying to oppose dialectical thought to formal logic 
as it develops in historical contexts, to the point where formal logic 
can be linked to possitivism.

note:

Shannon just mentioned that its important to her to teach things she 
doesn't agree with. <<THIS. :D

John mentioned something great:
	Marcus was a public individual, and like John Dewey it was 
important to him that he isn't just communicating to other scholars. 
	- the idea that someone who isn't intellectual can't begin to 
understand what you're writing is a very problematic assumption. This 
is something ranciere really argued against.

technological rationality is so key to capitalism, it becomes so 
ubiquitous and nebulous that it becomes difficult to parse and make 
changes. so some of the philosphers (marcuse) were able to critique 
technological rationality by criticising the militart-industrial complex. 

Quote from adorno on page 102 of Marcuse . 

page 101-102 linking memory with being a 
"Remembrance of the past may give rise to dangerous insights, and the 
established society seems to be apprehensive of the subversive 
contents of memory. Remembrance is a mode of dissociation from the 
given facts, a mode of 'midiation' which breaks, for short moments, 
the omnipresent power of the given facts. Memory recalls the terror 
and the hope that passed." 
'mode of dissociation from 
the given facts'. 

The hope in Marcuse: dynamic dialectic that works in contradictions, 
and if you asked him 
to think about change, he would identify the problems in the society, 
and try to think outside the norms.

Looking at protests i.e. Kent State ShootingOnce you see the police 
forces coming out firing on citizens, you understand that the system is 
really invested.
	>>>the great refusal: being able to identify what is wrong, 
but not being able/willing to take the steps to do something about it


double-edged nature of abstraction:
	-to have intellectual discourse about something you need to 
abstract it. 
	- abstraction is critical for critical discourse, but has the 
danger of being flipped and used to push for the dominant order. 
	- abstraction is a historical event. 

---

Universalism is a really complicated idea. Brandon wants to 

Brandon wants to see how environmental protection can be 
enforced, since in society the corporate action is to destroy the 
environment towards progress/efficiency >> its the dominant logic, its the 
technological rationality that is pushing this forward.

What do we do when we have two competing scientific arguments, both 
used by politicians?
	- what ends up being taken, that which is the position of 
those in power. this is a false consciousness: not recognizing there 
is environmental damage. 


>> Something to relate to Jia's work: "If the Good and the 
Beautiful, Peace and Justice cannot be derived 
either from ontological or scientific-rational conditions, they 
cannot logically claim universal validity and realization. In terms 
of scientific reason, they remain matters of preference, and no 
resuscitation of some kind of Aristotelian or Thomistic philosphy can 
save the situation, for it is a priori refuted by scientific reason. 
The unscienctific character of these ideas fatally weakens the 
opposition to the established reality; the ideas become mere ideals, 
and their concrete, critical content evaporates into the ethical or 
metaphysical atmosphere." (Marcuse. 151)
	- I offered that if a critique of established order is 
formulated outside said order, outside the tenets of the dominant 
discourse, then the establishment can afford to not understand the 
oppositional position because they merely have to point to the 
oppositional position's lacking of grounding in the dominant 
discourse. 
	- Marcuse sees philosophy as a way of critical thinking 
outside of the dominant gestell/enframing/technological rational. 
	- Einnar said about this "are the ultimate objectives of his 
negative thinking. ... how philosophy can do this, and what the 
comprehension is of the 'unmutilated reality' 
What 'is' becomes a functional how. (see page 155)

Ahsan made a great critique of 

Heidegger romanticizes the 'pre-technological society'. With pyramids 
where people were worked to death to build the structures, (Josh) 
which is a challenging forth of standing reserve. (me) The 
pyramids at the time of their construction did have a process of 
challenging forth and enframing the work as a final resting place 
for the rulers. (Josh) something to consider of the 'for the sake of' 
within an enframing. (Einnar) 
	- [Then I pointed out that:]that the pyramids and the aqueducts 
become standing reserve for the tourism industry and archaelogy. So 
while the enframing at the time limited the essence of the pyramids 
to 




Topology of science in STS: 'Science inherently does not have a 
practical end. THis allows for agents to step in and misuse it. Thats 
when technological rationality can embody scientific rationality and 
use it for nefarious ends.' (Einnar)

John mentioned that alchemy upheld that in order to influence 
material change, one had to also have a change in their soul. 

"The principles of modern science were a priori structured in such a 
way that they could sevre as conceptual instruments for a universe of 
self-propelling, productive control; theoretical operationalism came 
to correspond to practical operationalism. The scientific method 
which led to the ever-more-effective of nature thus came to prove the 
pure concepts as well as the instrumentalities for the 
ever-more-effective domination of man by man through the domination 
of nature. Theoretical reason, remaining pure and neutral, entered 
into the service of practical reason. The merger proved beneficial to 
both. Today, domination perpetuates and extends itself not only 
through technology but as technology, and the latter provides the 
great legitimation of the expanding political power, which absorbs 
all spheres of culture." (102)
	>> LInk to Simondon:
	"One might call autocratic a philosphy of technics which 
takes thenical whole as a place where machines are used to obtain 
power. The machine is only a means; the end is the conquest of 
nature, the domestication of natural forces through a primary 
enslavement: The machine is a slave which serves to make other 
slaves. Such a domineering and enslaving drive may go together with 
the quest for human freedom. But it is difficult to liberate oneself 
by transferring slavery to other beings, men, animals, or machines; 
to rule over a population of machines subjecting the whole world 
means still to rule, and all rule implies acceptance of schemata of 
subjection." (Gilbert Simondon, On the Mode of Technical Objecs 
[original french version, 1958, page 127, so not sure what page its 
on for the english translation we have)


a priori science post-galilean [... couldnt keep up, but Josh was 
making an interesting point about this...]

Only in the medium of technology, 


Realy famous passage in this text on differenc between 
objectification:

Objectification is you choosing to but yourself and work out 
there. Reification is where something becomes so built in that 
you don't recognize it:
Only in the medium of technology, man and nature become fungible 
objects of organization. The universal effectiveness and productivity 
of the apparatus under which they are subsumed veil the particular 
interests that organize the apparatus. In other words, technology has 
become the great vehicle of 'reification' -- reification in its most 
mature and effective form. The social position of the individual and 
his relation to others appear not only to be determined by objective 
qualities and laws, but these qualities and laws seem to lose their 
mysterious and uncontrollable character; they appear as calculable 
manifestiations of (scientific) rationality. The world tends to 
become the stuff of total administration, which absorbs even the 
administrators. The web of domination has become the web of Reason 
itself, and this society is fatally entangles in it. And the 
transcending modes of thought seem to transcend Reason itself." 
172-173

You don't want philosophic discourse to terminate the ordinary 
universe of discourse, but you also don't want ordinary discourse to 
terminate philosphopic discourse. (page 181)

Marcuse wants to preserve the right to think and read and speak in 
terms outside the 
norms and systemic assumptions of language itself. somehow in common 
language we need to be able to thinking terms that are an antithesis 
to the dominant thesis, which is what we are born to, the common 
language.; he posits that philosphy will allow us to do this. 

"...in the technological reality, the object world (including the 
subjects) is experienced as a world of instrumentalities. The 
technological context predefines the form in which the objects 
appear. They appear to the scientist a priori as value-free elements 
or complexes of relations, esceptible to organization in an effective 
mathematico-logical system; and they appear to common sense as the 
stuff of work or leisure, production or consumption. The object-world 
is thus the world of a specific historical project, and is never 
accessible outside the historical project which organizes matter, and 
the organization of matter is at one and the same time a theoretical and a practical enterprise." (223)
