This is now the main file for note-taking on positionality, simply put: for ease of typing!

Definitions: 

what does "longinquity" mean? (page 23)
	- it means remoteness in space or time (Miriam Webster)

what does Heidegger mean when he says "concernfully approach"? 
(24)
	-i think it relates to the way of thinking, that a thing 
approaches us because it is on our mind. we measure its 
distance/nearness to us mentally. 
	- the 'concerned approach attunes the distance 
(longinquity) between what is present within presencing' (23)

Questions:

"nearness is not shortness of distance, fairness is not the length of 
distance." (23)

"Nearness and farness remain equally outstanding" (23)

What one calls distance [Abstand] we know as the interval between 
two points." (23)



Possible question: on page 24, with the quote: "Distance lies in 
concerned approach. The concerned approach lies in nearness." (24) 
Does this imply a directionality in that 
distance>concernedapproach>nearness>observer?

he standing reserve appears again on page 25. but what does it 
have to do with distance or concernful approach?

"the stnding reserve persists. It persists insofar as it is 
imposed upon for a requisitioning. Directed into requisitioning, 
it is placed into a requisitioning. Directed into requisitioning, 
it is placed into application. Application positions everythin in 
advance in such a manner that what is positioned follows upon a 
result." (paragraph 2, page 25)
	- application- does it relate to the 4th being from 
Heidegger's question concerning technology? like, the application 
of the chalice formed from silver? the application presupposes the 
silver chalice. 
	- There is again a directionality in this paragraph: 
	standing-reserve>requisitioning>application>	


- as discussed in class today, the standing reserve can be 
helpfully thought of as the idle plane, waiting to be put into 
action. 
	QUESTION: what does distance have to do with standing? 
('The distanceless is never without standing.')


 
on page 25 when he is talking about the carpenter producing a 
table: can he be talking about a thing concernfully approaching 
'in time'? that is, it doesn't approach in distance, but through 
its fabrication it approaches in time. from standing-reserve (i.e. 
lumber)>requisitioning(characteristic positioning, 
it is to be a table)>application(it is a table)
		-- ?? thoughts?



---
key: "Position, set, place"
page 26 marks a possible turn away from where i had thought this 
text was going. when he talks about the peasant positioning the ox 
to perform an action, this is a positioning for application: "He 
does not place the oc here just so that it would stand somewhere. 
He positions what is placed here in such a manner that it is 
directed toward application." (26)

continued, heidegger brings in that "men and women must place 
themselves in a work service. they ar ordered." (26)

really cool next part, is introducing the positioning of a worker 
by another worker i.e. manager. the manager 'challenges him forth' 
(26)
> then leads into a REALLY cool part, which is that "the meaning 
of this word 'to position, place, set'" (ibid) can be used to 
describe "what comes to pass in that requisitioning through which 
an inventory arises [der Bestand steht] and is thus a standing 
reserve" (ibid)
	-- so an inventory is a standing reserve. 
continued: we are told that "to place, position, set means ... to 
challenge, to demand, to compel toward self-positioning ... as a 
consription... directed at the human. but within the whole of what presences, the 
human is not the only presence approached by conscription" (ibid) 
for what is also conscripted is "land ... namely for the coal and 
ore that subsists in it. 

DEFINITION: 'ordering' (appears here on page 26): "The earth's 
soil is drawn into such a plactinf and is attacked by it. It is 
ordered, forced into conscription. this is how we understand the 
word 'ordering' [bestellen] here and in what follows" (ibid)
