This lecture on positionality introduces the idea of the concernful 
approach. In the conception that beyond its materiality, 
technology is also a way of thinking, the concernful approach addresses 
the way in which a thing is distanced mentally in relation to oneself, 
and the way in which things are distanced in relation to each other and
all in relation to oneself. 

A key characteristic of the concerful approach is ordering, 
regarding a things coming into being. A thing is called from standing 
reserve, is positioned, and then applied. The example of the carpenter
producing a table can be helpful in illustrating the concernful approach
in time and space: Trees processed into lumber and transported to the 
carpenter's workshop is a requisitioning, the crafting into the table is
a process of positioning, and the use of the thing as a table is
its application, which as an idea was responsible for its coming into 
being in the first place. This is what is meant by position, set, place.
It is a positioning of the standing reserve for application. The 
application as what calls the standing reserve into use is the way of 
thinking of technology, which relates to the discussion last class on 
how policy is a technology. 

From here Heidegger turns to the human, and human systems such as 
the workplace and international relations. A hierarchy positions humans
into work, at times directly from a superior, and also indirectly in what
Heidegger calls positionality, the 'self-ordering' of standing reserves, and the [quote] "essence of technology." (31)

key: "requisitioning from the outset attacks everything that is: 
nature and history, humans and divinities..." (30) But this 'attack' is 
not necessarily a danger. 

Ordering is a keyword

directionality appears essential to the ordering in the concernful
approach of a thing, what Heidegger calls the circuit of positioning:
 A flowchart might depict 
application>standing reserve>requisition>positioning>application. This 
circuit depends on the scale at which one is observing. i.e. My blood
and bones are part of the system that is Michael, but Michael is part of 
system that is this class. How can we look at a multi-scale interpretation
of the circuit of positioning? And, does this flow of the becoming of 
material objects also apply to ideas?


Heidegger states that "The pieces of the standing reserve are
piece-for-piece equivalent. Their character as pieces demands this
uniformity." As a standing reserve can be positioned into an inventory, 
implies that an application can also be a standing reserve. To what end(s)
is it useful to think of a thing as being in both states? 
	- My own interest comes from a background in hacking and circuit
bending. 

How might the hacking
practices, or remix culture, or 
of  Is this flow only move in one direction, and is an application 


There is a directionality 

How might a thing's position be thought of in the context of reuse? 

Question:
If a policy is a technology, 

