Notes on "i. Abstract Technical Object and 
Concrete Technical Object"

When Simondon states that "It is difficult ... to define 
the genesis of each technical object, because the 
individuality of technical objects is modified to the 
course of the genesis." (11) what is meant by 
'individuality'? 

"...no fixed structure corresponds to its defined 
use." (11)

"If we begin with the criteria of its [the technical 
object's] genesis we can define the individuality or 
specificity of any technical object." (12)

Seems to say that as a technical object evolves, its 
chratacteristics of "...unity, individuality, and 
specificity ... are consistent and convergent with 
its genesis." (ibid)

KEY >> "The technical object as such is not anterior 
to its own becoming but it is present at every stage 
of its becoming. The technical object is a unit of 
becoming." (ibid)

The footnote on page 12 suggests that 'genesis' and 
a genetic framework as useful for discussing the 
classification of technical objects.

"...there is a sequence, a continuity, which extends 
from the first engines to those which we know and to 
those still in evolution. As a consequence, just as 
in the case of phylogenetic sequences, any particular 
stage of evolution contains within itself dynamic 
structures and systems which are at the basis of any 
evolution of forms. The technical being evolves by 
convergence and by adaption to itself; it is unified 
from within according to a principle of internal 
resonance." (14)

"Therefore the technical problem has to do with the 
convergence of structures to a structural unity 
rather than with the seeking of compromises between 
conflicting requirements." (15)

"This kind of divergence of functional aims is a 
residue of abstract design in the technical object, 
and the progress of a technical object is definable 
in terms of the progessive reduction of this margin 
between functions in plurvalent structures." 

Simondon claims that opposed to humans, technical 
species have finite "...directions of convergence," 
(17) but does not state why this is. 
