"...inertia of real time, a paradoxical inertia that results from 
the sudden acceleration of common reality." (Virilio 2)

"the polar inertia produced by the instantaneity of interactive 
connections is actually poised to supplant the fixed-property 
inertia of places..."
(3)

idea of the 'sovereignty of history' (3) being 'undermined'. 

The way in which social media gives voice to historically often 
under-represented voices?

One thing I think I may be learning from this course is that when 
I think the author is taking a stance on one particular side, it 
seems to turn out that they are actually on another side. This 
concern with "the continuum of a general history that's in the 
process of being instantaneously obliterated."

"The capacity of a few big banks to engage in flash orders, using 
computing power analogous to the power of nuclear deterrence in 
the hands of the top brass of the military, calls into question 
the very basis of free competition in a turbocapitalism clearly 
nearing its end." (8)

Keyword "distortion of competition"
Keyword "anamorphosis"

"...twenty-first century interactivity now dominates the 
standardization of behaviours and activities that characterized 
both the nineteenth and twentieth centuries." (18)

part of the answer to Einnar's question of the problematic of the 
losses accrued 

the biggest threat of the "information bomb"

What Virilio is worried about is the instantaneuousness of not 
having a fixed place. See page 18 "Hence the urgency..."

accident in knowledge page 16. 

Concern with the creation of a single market. The idea of the 
single market is an early warning sign of an accident in 
knowledge. Relates to rationality and heidegger's enframing. 

fractalization as a loss of being in the present. 

loss of cultural memory. why is that a bad thing?

Virilio is panicked. Its a panicked enframing. His theory is in a 
sense panicked enframing. He works very well for this point in 
time ... driven by fear. When on page 5 he talks about a loss of a 
general history. ... he's also Euro-centric ... he links the 
female body and the metabolic vehicle" (Shannon Bell on Virilio)
