Tyler's presentation on page 138-151.

terms:

apparatus

efficiency 

homogenity

simplicity

necessity


war economy and technological efficiency is gestell (enframing). Marcuse 
takes the phenomenological and existential understanding of heidegger and 
combines it with a marxist understanding of labor. 

For marcuse there is little difference between National socialism and 
american capitalism. 

potential fall of overly fascistic regimes: they are so efficient that 
they break themselves down. 
	- the productive forces themselves cannot keep up with the 
efficiencies. 
	- can be related to the point that for Veblen "[the human's] work 
supplements the machine process rather than makes use of it. On the 
contrary the machine process make use of the workman." humans are 
dragging the progress of technology down. Sandra says if you start 
looking at algorithmic trading, humans are dragging it down. "The share 
of the operative workman in the machine industry is (typically) that of 
an attendant, an assistant, whose duty it is to keep pace with the 
machine process and to help out with workmanlike manipulation at points 
where the machine prorcess is incomplete. 

Taylorism is when you break everything down into components and do 
scientific management. Fordism 

veblen on bureaucracy!! socio-political thought. 
	- critical sociology and work. 
	- Jonathan nitzen uses veblen.



the thing about marcuse always holds on to a dialetical hope for critical 
thought. 


left-wing accelerationist perspective 


Cognitive Capitalism -- ask who did she 


Discipline vs self-regulation. How fascism isn't exactly like the 
democratice society that we see today. Foucault died before he could look 
at the effects of digital life on humans. 

Technology as a push for efficiency also has an effect on the classroom, 
because if students are chiefly concerned about their grades as their 
primary takeaway from the class, then they will only focus on what it 
takes to get a grade in the most efficient course of action. This works 
in opposition to being open to other aspects of the class that may or may 
not co-relate to grades, but are nonetheless of potential value. 

how through technology our thinking is supplanted by instrumentalization 
i.e. a gps does the thinking and navigation for you (see page 141). 
Stiegler talks about this in Automated Society.
	- Einar posed that there is no difference between the 
consultation of the map (or gps) with the stranger local to the area one 
is navigating. 

partly what we want to do with philosophy is update it as we go along. 
i.e. Tamer mentioned that a lot of this text is ableist, racist, sexist. 
Shannon says that within technology is embedded gendered and ablist 
terminology. Shannon says that by the time we get to Stiegler it may not 
as much be the case, that accelerationism may move away from this. 
	- Shannon mentioned Edward Said "Travelling Theory" that work 
itself takes on a trajectory of its own, and the people who you don't expect to read it 
read it anyway, and take it in their own directions. ... THIS WAY you 
take what you need of Heidegger and use it for something he didn't 
address. 

Peter mentioned that after the map is printed it is already out of date. 

Idea of "Matter of factness" presentation of technology that makes it 
seem obvious. its a totalizing way of thinking. 


----- Notes on my section -----

If we take into account the historical shift that took into place. 

bringing in a point that 

later on thought about students for democratic action (1964, one 
dimensional man). 

Marcuse's idea of technical self-administration as an opposition to 
public democracy. 

the public democracy will be a weapon as long as the will of the people 
can assert itself. 
once you reach the point of technical self-administration, 

temporality to politics vs temporality to technology..?

the will of the people is essential to thinking about the context of the 
public democracy being used as a tuner of the overall bureaucracy. 
	- what is the general will of the people?
	on the one hand you have the will of the people
	on the other hand you have the self-administrated bureaucracy

comparing the black panthers to the occupy wall street (black panthers 
were community organizers and more sustainable than occupy, even though 
occupy got more media attention). black panthers never really got 
absorbed by the system. they were also seen as community activists 
(changed the way they talked about their work as 

community organization is different from the stigmergic coordination that  
social media

be really careful to not say that BLM are not sustainable. 

BLM are decentralized and that is part of their power. the way that we 
are mass is not the same as in 1940. Tamer on how we are mass: we are so 
decentralized, and exposed to different kinds of information..." 
- also what happened at standing rock, how people were able to throw off 
govt surveillance.
	- "The coordinated masses fo not crave a new order but a larger 
share in the prevailing one."

How can you think about how the critical public democracy can be an 
intervention when the public democracy is mired in the mass that it is 
trying to push against?

Sandra pointed out that where marcuse is concerned with the massification 
of individuality. (individual going out toward the mass). you (me) are 
concerned with post-individualism, which is coming from distributed 
creativity, is breaking the conversation from the other side. 

where i am going with it is post-individualism 

John's resposne: Ayne Rand's fountainhead return to the hyper-liberal 
individual, moving against the collectivism. revolt against mass society 
from the right. Interesting that you have AYne Rand from the right, and 
Marcuse from the Left. 

great term "nearly genius"

