Read: Marcuse: 'Some Social implications of modern technology'

then:
so for this assignment i need to write a response on -- and 
provide 2 questions for -- pages 152-162 of marcuse. 

0. keywords
1. notes on whole article
2. notes on my section

--0. keywords
	- technics

	- tecnocracy: "the technical considerations of 
imperialistic efficiency and rationality supersede the 
traditional standards of profitability and general 
welfare." BUT Need to to define it more, perhaps from 
outside this article

	- individualistic rationalism


	- radical puritanism



--1. notes on whole article:

'fetish of technique' replaced commodity fetish after 1941

-political neutrality of technique
-possibility of progressive utilization of techniques

'technology is taken as a social process in which technics 
proper (that is, the technical apparatus of industry, 
transportation, communication) is but a partial factor.' 
(138)

this article does not focus on the effect or influence of 
technology on human individuals (138). 

"technology, as a mode of production, as the totality of 
instruments, devices and contrivances which characterize 
the machine age is thus at the same time a mode of 
orgnizing and perpetuation (or changing) social 
relationships, a manifestation of prevalent thought and 
behaviour patterns, an instrument for control and 
domination." (138-139)

When marcuse talks about the "ingenious manipulation of the 
power inherent in technology: the intensification of labor, 
propaganda, the training of youths and workers, the 
organization of the governmental, industrial and party 
bureaucracy -- all of which constitute the daily implements 
of terror -- follow the lines of greatest technological 
efficiency" (139) this is likely what Shannon Bell was 
saying in regard to how hiedegger was influenced by marcuse 
in the total of technology, that society is a form of 
technology.

"The principle of individualism, the pursuit of 
self-interest, was conditioned upon the proposition that 
self-interest was rational, that is to say, that it 
resulted from and was constantly guided and controlled by 
autonomous thinking." (140)
	- RECALL that distributed cognition and distributed 
crativity works in opposition to INDIVIDUALISM. that no one 
is ever truly working in isolation of their society, or in 
isolation from other ideas. 
continued: "The rational self-interest did not coincide 
with the individual's immediate self-interest, for the 
latter depended upon the standards and requirements of the 
prevailing social order, placed there not by his autonomous 
thought and conscience but by external authorities" (ibid)

"Liberalist society was held to be the adequate setting for 
individualistic rationality. In the sphere of free 
competition, the tangible achievements of the individual 
which made his products and performances a part of 
society's need, were the marks of his individuality. In the 
course of time, however, the process of commodity 
production undermined the economic basis on which 
inidivualistic rationality was built. Mechanization and 
rationalization forced the weaker competitor under the 
dominion of the giant enterprises of machine industry 
which, in establishing society's dominion over nature, 
abolished the free economic subject." (140-141)


Key: "The priniciple of competitive efficiency favors the 
enterprises with the most highly mechanized and 
rationalized industria equipment." (141) 

"Under the impact of this apparatus, individualistic 
rationality has been transformed into technological 
rationality." (141)
	- Marcuse goes on to say that this is not limited 
to the forces and artefacts within corporations, but also 
"...characterizes the pervasive mode of thought and even 
the manifold forms of protest and rebellion." (141) and 
that this affects the mind of citizens to be accepting and 
easily influenced by the "...dicates of the apparatus." 
(ibid)

From Veblen "[the human's] work supplements the machine 
process rather than makes use of it. On the contrary the 
machine process makes use of the workman." (142)



152-162:
possible key idea from previous page (147): 
"Standardization of thought"

idea of a system (likely neoliberalism?) that absorbs its 
own oppositional forces and twists them into a force for 
the system's own use: "The standardization of thought 
under the sway of technological rationality also affects 
the critical truth values. The latter are torn from the 
context to which they originally belonged and, in their 
new form, are given wide, even official publicity. For 
example, propositions which , in EUrope, were the 
exclusive domain of the labor movement are today adopted 
by the very forces which these propositions denounced. In 
the fascist countries, they serve as ideological 
instruments for the attack on 'Jewish capitalism' and 
'Western plutocracy,' thereby concealing the actual front 
in the struggle." (147-148)

-- worth noting that Trump did this with 'fake news'. 
used a term that arose around the election that was meant 
to point to 'news articles' with false info and/or lacking 
context(s), and then used this term to detract from his 
opponents in the establishment media. 
--"The critical truth values borne by an oppositional 
social movement change their significance when this 
movement incorporates itself into the apparatus." (149)

another important idea in this text is that of the 
individual who ceases to think critically. 

FOR YOUR SECTION:
this papercomes back to the idea of the individual 
as a resource, page 151 is crucial to this, where it 
introduces the shaping of a person into a personality
 with traits and skills suitable for the completion of 
certain pre-arranged tasks.
. 

"Where the daily social performance of the individual 
has become antagonistic to his 'true interest', the 
individualist principle has changed its meaning. The 
protagonists of individualism were aware of the fact that 
'individuals can be developed only by being trusted with 
somewhat more than they can, at the moment, do well'; 
today, the individual is trusted with precisely what 
[they] can, at the moment, do well."


 
