I found this article really hard in part because of my own skepticism of the tenets of individualism, how stigmergic coordination is supported by our current technology, and lastly that while I purport to be against individualism, this article did expose to me areas of my own life where I do cling to (or am imposed upon by) certain individualistic ideas, and when I came upon those thoughts, I became very depressed. SO it took a long time to read and re-read this article. 


Contrary to the first-order definition of individualistic rationality as “critical and oppositional” to society and toward self-interest, Marcuse introduces second- and third-order individualistic rationalities. Individualistic rationality under a developing technocracy promotes a standardization of workforce training that lies in the casting of an individual’s personality to nothing beyond only the very specific requirements of a given job. (152, 154) Distinction between specialization and ‘common’ knowledge is blurred in technocracy. Such constraint on expectations from individuals as specialists, rationalized towards efficiency, hinders self-organization to the point that “coordination and management” operates as a bureaucratic topology. (ibid) With a developed sophisticated technocratic apparatus comes a third-order phase -- what Marcuse calls the “mature form of … individualistic rationality” (156) where the ‘individual’ is bereft of any aspects of their personality beyond that which is expected of them, (157) that “...large-scale industry… render[s] individuality unnecessary.” (158) Curiously, Marcuse’s ideation of a technocractic apparatus does not extend, as a topology, beyond the governmental, public, and private-industrial/corporate context, instead suggesting that personal property may be the new space in which a person may return to a ‘natural’ utopic individualism. (161)



The philosophy of the simple life, the struggle against big cities and their culture frequently serves to teach men distrust of the potential instruments that could liberate them. (160) [SUPER relevant to thinking about how my parents don’t want to know how their own consumer technology works, while I feel liberated by the empowerment of hacking.

The emphasis of the individual as a force in the public context was overturned in the 19th century to the point that 

Emphasize that the “..idea of the individual became increasingly ambiguous”

An example 

Picking up from a second-order phase of individualism described in the first part of the 

Question 1: Marcuse states that the “public democracy, if democratically constituted and controlled [can take on] the ‘conservation of those human and material resources which technology and corporations have tended to misuse and waste.’ In the age of mass society, the power of the public bureaucracy can be the weapon which protects the people from the encroachment of special interests upon the general welfare.” (156) [[basically want to say that as state previously where the apparatus absorbs its own oppositional forces and twists them into forces for that very system’s own use, then how long can one expect such a democratic weapon be used for the good of public ‘human and material resource conservation’ before it is used against itself? 

Question2: Following up on question 1, the circuit of a balancing of public and private bureaucracy is one of a negative feedback loop (like a thermostat) where the public keeps the private in check. But are there any aspects of public bureaucracy that the private sector regulates? 

Question 3: “This standardization may indicate the extent to which individual creativeness and originality have been rendered unnecessary.” (158) This is predicated on the idea of genius, that one can create as an individual without influence from society, and that a person is naturally an individual, (162) but in a system where the individual is reduced to specific function(s) as part of a larger system -- perhaps thought of as cultural production[?] -- what can be said about how this system itself creates? 


Bureaucracy in fascism, where “private, semi-private (party) and public (governmental) bureaucracies” (155) are merged in part to satisfy total efficiency is contrasted with bureacracy in democracy, where public bureaucracies are leveraged to balance the private sector(s). 

The beaurocracy emerged as the organizational topology of technocracy. With  where the individual is as specialist is distanced from . (154




The latter half of the chapter ‘Political Sociology and Critique of Politics’ deals with the condensing of the responsibilities of the individual in society to within constraints that permit their contributions to society such that they maximize inefficiency. 
I.e. going from outset of individualism which sees the individual being ‘trusted with somewhat more than they can, at the moment, do well’ (152) to ‘modern individualism (i.e. at the time of Marcuse) where ‘the individual is trusted with precisely what he can at the moment, do well.’ (ibid) that the worker is not expected to exceed expectations. 

Idea of ‘essential freedom’ is that of the individual can reach beyond that which is expected of them -- whether this be beyond their skillset, beyond their training, or beyond their social fullfillments -- 

Individual is no longer ‘autonomous’ and works in isolation against the whim(s) of society, rather must tune themselves to the apparatus. (152)

Technological process implies a democratization of functions. 

Idea of instrumentalistic side of technological rationality as ‘common denominator’ of intellectual activities. Instrumentalism becomes a technique, where ‘training’ is emphasized over individuality (uniqueness?), ‘requiring the expert rather than the complete human personality.” (153)



