our attention is one of the sites where accelerationism looks at. 


the process of formalizing something into a routine, or 
abstraction, means that it will speed 'something' up later on. it 
turns it into a standing reserve. 

a hashtag is a standing reserve. 

emphasis on speed 

change in assumption about speed. accelerationism is a different 
commitment than speed. 

Hassan's point that technology is proactive, whereas the legal 
system is reactive. so the legal system can't keep up with what 
technology has done or will do. 

Andrew: Uber is breaking the law, but it is breaking a law that 
a large section of the population already believes is 
unfair/unjust. 
	- think about P2P data transferring. 

"accelerationism has within itself some of the totalizing aspects 
of modernism that it itself is trying to criticize." It is 
possible that accelerationism is a totalizing discourse. 
	- but they are taking from different places 

Whether a discourse pulls from many different discourses or from 
within a single discourse. Are they coming up with something new 
or are they floundering in the totality(s) of the various 
discourses from which they draw?

"As Mateo Pasquinneli has shown, this power of abstraction is an 
inherent capacity of the organism (including the human brain) to 
invent new norms in relation to dynamic surroundings, recalling 
that a norm is not law, but a conception of law. In this sense, 
the stagnant, alternativeless polis can be diagnoses as 
pathological, since it refuses to adapt to changing epistemic 
conditions." (535-536)

Bonus question on which of the tenets of accelerationism as 
proposed by Reed do you most relate to: 
me: 'abstractify': 
"Abstraction is the process of taking emergent routines and 
turning them into standing reserves. ... What is curious to me is 
the apparent lacking of inclusion of a tenet of refactoring, or 
perhaps some ofther process of looking at an abstraction and 
determining what -- if any -- of its constitutent parts are 
themselves abstractions [commitments?], and whether their 
inclusion in said abstraction changes them, or if a given 
sub-abstraction nested in the supra-abstraction causes any 
conflict with another nested subabstraction, etc." (My response)
go back to simondon for the technical object. 


