"'...an eveolving space that reconstitutes itself' and that has 
the capacity to generate functioning 'norms'" (John in-class on 
Negarestani)

The map position. 

why would confronting humanity with its finitude degrade it? 
(first page)

providing a critique of humanism from what he understands from 
within accelerationism

459 we can't talk about humanism without first understanding 

what is 'commitment'? 

commitments: what it means to be human. how one goes about making 
change in a changed world. in platform capitalism, the commitment 
to the human and the commitment to the labour in the sense of 
previous social systems, no longer applies. 

He's borrowing from Robert Brandum: Inferentialism is how concepts 
work. when you make a concept, you're making a commitment to 
the inferences that come out of it.[from Josh in-class] WOW. this 
is possibly linked to the use of dependencies in software programming. 

when you make a new concept, unless you update the commitments its 
bound to you buy the concept in itself.

Humans are birthing this thing called reason which will become a 
force that humans will need to contend with in the future. (John)

using reason as a technicity. its in relation to the technical 
objects. you can go look at reason on the rest of the philosphers 
in this course with respect to reason. 

Doesn't inhuman imply 

"Indeed, in its commendable attempt to outlint 'what ought to be 
done' in terms of functional organizations, complex hierarchies 
and positive feedback loops of autonomy, Srnicek and WIlliams's 
'#Accelerate' signifies a Marxian project that is in the process 
of updating its commitments. It should come as no surprise that 
such an endeavor receives the most derision and scorn from those 
strains of Marxism which have long since given up on updating 
their cognitive and practical commitments." (Negarestani 453)

page 465 takes a look at unlearning. 
"Liberation is neither the inisital spark of freedom nor 
sufficient "In 
a strict sense, freedom is not liberation from slavery. It is 
the continuous unlearning of slavery."


Engineering epistemology << KEY TO your paper
"Knowledge of the system is not a general epistemology, but 
rather, 
as William Wimsatt emphasizes, en 'engineering epistemology'. 
Engineering epistemology -- a form of understanding that 
involves the designated the designated manipulation of the 
causal fabric and the organization of function hierarchies -- is 
an upgradeable armamentarium of heuristics that is particularly 
attentive to the distinct roles and requirements of different 
levels and hierarchies. It employs lower-level entities and 
mechanisms to guide and enhance construction on upper levels. It 
also ustilizes upper-level variables 
and robust processes to correct lower-level structural and 
functional hierarchies, but also renormalize their 
space of possibilities so as to actualize 
their constructive potentials, yielding the observables and 
manipulation conditionals necessary for further construction." 
(page 460-461)


