"...inertia of real time, a paradoxical inertia that results from 
the sudden acceleration of common reality." (Virilio 2)

"the polar inertia produced by the instantaneity of interactive 
connections is actually poised to supplant the fixed-property 
inertia of places..."
(3)

idea of the 'sovereignty of history' (3) being 'undermined'. 

The way in which social media gives voice to historically often 
under-represented voices?

One thing I think I may be learning from this course is that when 
I think the author is taking a stance on one particular side, it 
seems to turn out that they are actually on another side. This 
concern with "the continuum of a general history that's in the 
process of being instantaneously obliterated."

"The capacity of a few big banks to engage in flash orders, using 
computing power analogous to the power of nuclear deterrence in 
the hands of the top brass of the military, calls into question 
the very basis of free competition in a turbocapitalism clearly 
nearing its end." (8)

Keyword "distortion of competition"
Keyword "anamorphosis"

"...twenty-first century interactivity now dominates the 
standardization of behaviours and activities that characterized 
both the nineteenth and twentieth centuries." (18)

part of the answer to Einnar's question of the problematic of the 
losses accrued 

the biggest threat of the "information bomb"

What Virilio is worried about is the instantaneuousness of not 
having a fixed place. See page 18 "Hence the urgency..."

accident in knowledge page 16. 

Concern with the creation of a single market. The idea of the 
single market is an early warning sign of an accident in 
knowledge. Relates to rationality and heidegger's enframing. 

fractalization as a loss of being in the present. 

loss of cultural memory. why is that a bad thing?

Virilio is panicked. Its a panicked enframing. His theory is in a 
sense panicked enframing. He works very well for this point in 
time ... driven by fear. When on page 5 he talks about a loss of a 
general history. ... he's also Euro-centric ... he links the 
female body and the metabolic vehicle" (Shannon Bell on Virilio)

Temporality of politics 

Heidegger's idea that humans are only required in a technocracy to 
be accountable for the points of failure in the machine > how can 
it connect to this passage: "Surely we can't fail to see the 
enormous time difference that exists, today, between our at once 
untimely 


instantaneous transmission > its inaccurate. i can't segment my 
email's trajectory from my laptop to another machine into 
nanoseconds

Allamonszet (the freedom to roam  all property is public)

technicity and time: relation to cultural identity and memory. 

Shannon: "Our metabolic rate cannot keep up with the rate that 
technicity requires of us." (In response, in part, to Brianna's 
question). 

sees communism of affects as a bad thing, a desocialization. 
"...the acceleration of common reality swiftly makes practical 
life, everyday life and nor just social or family life, 
impossible. This has recently resulted in the atomization, the 
sudden 'fractalization' of social units which beyond the risks of 
'communitarianism', entails the incomparably more serious risks of 
an emotional synchronization what will lead to a 'communism of 
affects' on the scale of a planet reduced to nothing, where the 
real time of 'cyber' instantaneity will, this time, finally 
overtake the real space of the time differences and time distances 
involved in our indispensable relationship to the world. 
Desocialization will thereby extend people's current mental and 
emotional disorientation." (32-33) 
	- Communism of affect can be linked to the silo or bubble 
of ideology. Virilio is really concerned with this.  


Traditional understanding of communism is a sharing of material. 
Virilio's 'communism' is a sharing of ideas, content (?); for 
virilio this comes through interactive technology. 

EInnar "I wonder if to manage risk we ought to stick 
with Heidegger's original solution to confront and to think 
with technology, not against it. But again: how?" >> I am also 
drawn to thinking about how Virilio is so concerned with the speed 
of technology as being outside of our [experience?] or [outside of 
our ability to experience?]. Is a tendency to dismiss the 
segmentation of one's experience at the nano-temporal a useful 

circuit breakers in political theory! > page 67


virilio seems to have a fear of segmentations of time that he 
himself cannot experience. 

regarding the time it takes to write a book, give lectures 
(maybe?) edit it, publish it, and have it be responded to. people 
respond to it, is it 

He often publishes quickly. 

Hassan made a great point that we need to be careful we don't rush 
to judgement labelling things/people as consipracy theories. 

Panic 
